1.1 Propositions and logical operations
Logic is the study of formal reasoning. Logic is useful in any field in which it is important to make precise statements. 
The most basic element in logic is a proposition. A proposition is a statement that is either true or false.

There are an infinite number of prime numbers.	True
The Declaration of Independence was signed on July 4, 1812.	False

A proposition's truth value is a value indicating whether the proposition is actually true or false. 
A proposition is still a proposition whether its truth value is known to be true, known to be false, unknown, or a matter of opinion. 

Proposition         	Comment
Two plus two is four.	Truth value is true.
Two plus two is five.	Truth value is false.
Monday will be cloudy.	Truth value is unknown.
The movie was funny.	Truth value is a matter of opinion.
The extinction of the dinosaurs was caused by a meteor.	Truth value is unknown.

A compound proposition is created by connecting individual propositions with logical operations.
A logical operation combines propositions using a particular composition rule.

For example, the conjunction operation is denoted by ∧. 
The proposition p ∧ q is read "p and q" and is called the conjunction of p and q. 
p ∧ q is true if both p is true and q is true. p ∧ q is false if p is false, q is false, or both are false.

p ∧ q is true only when both p and q are true.
p ∧ q is false for all other combinations.

The disjunction operation is denoted by ∨. 
The proposition p ∨ q is read "p or q", and is called the disjunction of p and q. 
p ∨ q is true if either one of p or q is true, or if both are true. 
p ∨ q is true when either of p or q is true.
p ∨ q is false only when p and q are both false.

The exclusive or of p and q evaluates to true when p is true and q is false or when q is true and p is false. 
The exclusive or operation is usually denoted with the symbol ⊕. 
The proposition p ⊕ q is true if exactly one of the propositions p and q is true but not both.
p ⊕ q does not evaluate to true if p is true and q is true.
p ⊕ q is true if exactly one of p and q are true. In the second row of the table, p is true and q is not true.
p ⊕ q does not evaluate to true if p is false and q is false.

The inclusive or operation is the same as the disjunction (∨) operation and evaluates to true when one or both of the propositions are true.

The negation operation acts on just one proposition and has the effect of reversing the truth value of the proposition. 
The negation of proposition p is denoted ¬p and is read as "not p". 

The truth value of ¬p is the opposite of the truth value of p.

¬ (not)
∧ (and)
∨ (or)


1.2 Evaluating compound propositions
A compound proposition can be created by using more than one operation. 
For example, the proposition p ∨ ¬q evaluates to true if p is true or the negation of q is true.

The order in which the operations are applied in a compound proposition such as p ∨ ¬q ∧ r may affect the truth value of the proposition. 
the proposition p ∨ q ∧ r should be read as p ∨ (q ∧ r), instead of (p ∨ q) ∧ r. 
 

1.4 Logical equivalence
A compound proposition is a tautology if the proposition is always true, regardless of the truth value of the individual propositions that occur in it. 
A compound proposition is a contradiction if the proposition is always false, regardless of the truth value of the individual propositions that occur in it.

Two compound propositions are said to be logically equivalent if they have the same truth value regardless of the truth values of their individual propositions. 
If s and r are two compound propositions, the notation s ≡ r is used to indicate that r and s are logically equivalent. 
For example, p and ¬¬p have the same truth value regardless of whether p is true or false, so p ≡ ¬¬p. 
Propositions s and r are logically equivalent if and only if the proposition s ↔ r is a tautology.


1.5 Laws of propositional logic
If two propositions are logically equivalent, then one can be substituted for the other within a more complex proposition. 
The compound proposition after the substitution is logically equivalent to the compound proposition before the substitution.

For example p → q ≡ ¬p ∨ q. Therefore,

(p ∨ r) ∧ (¬p ∨ q)  ≡  (p ∨ r) ∧ (p → q)
        
