A logical statement whose truth value is a function of one or more variables is called a predicate.
The statement contains a variable and is therefore a predicate.

A predicate can depend on more than one variable. Define the predicates Q and R as:
Q(x, y): x^2 = y
R(x, y, z): x+y = z
The proposition Q(5, 25) is true because 52 = 25. The proposition R(2, 3, 6) is false because 2 + 3 ≠ 6

The domain of a variable in a predicate is the set of all possible values for the variable. 
For example, a natural domain for the variable x in the predicate "x is an odd number" would be the set of all integers. 
If the domain of a variable in a predicate is not clear from context, the domain should be given as part of the definition of the predicate.


Universal quantifier
If all the variables in a predicate are assigned specific values from their domains, then the predicate becomes a proposition with a well defined truth value. 
Another way to turn a predicate into a proposition is to use a quantifier. 

The logical statement ∀x P(x) is read "for all x, P(x)" or "for every x, P(x)". 
The statement ∀x P(x) asserts that P(x) is true for every possible value for x in its domain. 
The symbol ∀ is a universal quantifier and the statement ∀x P(x) is called a universally quantified statement. 
∀x P(x) is a proposition because it is either true or false. 
∀x P(x) is true if and only if P(n) is true for every n in the domain.

Proving ∀x (1/(x+1) < 1) is true for an arbitrary positive integer x.
The proof starts with the fact that 0<x for all positive integers and adds 1 to both sides to get 1<1+x.
Dividing both sides by (x+1) gives that (1/(x+1) < 1). The inequality is true for all positive integers x.

A counterexample for a universally quantified statement is an element in the domain for which the predicate is false. 
A single counterexample is sufficient to show that a universally quantified statement is false. 
For example, consider the statement ∀x (x2 > x), in which the domain is the set of positive integers. 
When x = 1, then x2 = x and the statement x2 > x is not true. 
Therefore x = 1 is a counterexample that shows the statement "∀x (x2 > x)" is false.


Existential quantifier
The logical statement ∃x P(x) is read "There exists an x, such that P(x)". 
The statement ∃x P(x) asserts that P(x) is true for at least one possible value for x in its domain. 
The symbol ∃ is an existential quantifier and the statement ∃x P(x) is called a existentially quantified statement. 
∃x P(x) is a proposition because it is either true or false. 
∃x P(x) is true if and only if P(n) is true for at least one value n in the domain of variable x.

∃x (x + 1 < x) - The statement is false because no positive integer satisfies the expression x + 1 < x.

